---
layout: post
title: Find
---

`find` is a great workhorse for trundling through filesystems, but has
a ton of options and a long man page.  Here are options I use frequently:

## -prune

Prune is weird, like a double negative, but can save lots of work.  Say you have
a Mac and a huge backup under /Volumes, how do you scan everything except that
folder?  While you're at it how do you also skip /dev, not because it is large
but because it throws errors in your search?  If you use `-not -path` like so

{% highlight console %}
$ sudo find / -not -path /Volumes\* -and -not -path /dev\*
{% endhighlight %}

you might notice like I did that it prints everything out then seems to stall
for hours, printing nothing.  Using `opensnoop` it turns out that find is still
traversing everything, and in that stall period is just busily going through
your backups in /Volumes and over and over deciding that each file matches a
path that should be skipped.

Prune tells find to stop traversing that part of the filesystem, skipping all
work under that directory.  Great, but it also reverses what you might expect
and tells find to report the thing you pruned instead of everything else.

{% highlight console %}
$ find / -prune
/

$ sudo find / -maxdepth 3 -path /Volumes -prune
/Volumes

$ sudo find / -maxdepth 3 -path /Volumes -prune -o -path /dev -prune
/dev
/Volumes
{% endhighlight %}

I added `-maxdepth 3` to the last two examples just to limit work.  Find is
only going to print the two pruned directories, but trundles everything else.
This is doing work on the correct parts of the filesystem, but is the opposite
of what we want to pass to the rest of our search.  So close!

Now use `or print` and you get everything except the pruned paths, and no work
is done in those paths.

{% highlight console %}
$ sudo find / -path /Volumes -prune -o -path /dev -prune -o -print
{% endhighlight %}

## -print0 | xargs -0

Instead of -print, I use -print0 and pipe find output to `xargs -0`.  This way
the receiver will get one file per parameter regardless of having spaces in a
file name.

Example where I want full path of files which have an invalid user:

{% highlight console %}
$ sudo find / -path /Volumes -prune -o -path /dev -prune -o -nouser -print0 | sudo xargs -0 ls -ld
{% endhighlight %}

Couple of tips on xargs:

### xargs is not cross-platform

xargs on BSD (like your Mac) and Linux don't have the same flags and don't
follow the same spec.  For example, CentOS xargs will always call the worker
even if there is no work to do:

{% highlight console %}
$ find /nothing | xargs echo what
{% endhighlight %}

That will run `echo what` on most Linux distros, but not on BSD.

### sudo goes on the outside

If you run `xargs sudo` with sudo on the inside, then you get a poor side
effect with `ARG_MAX` and cannot run anything with input larger than `ARG_MAX /
2`.  xargs normally looks at `ARG_MAX`, subtracts the size of the current
environment, takes off a little 4k buffer in case the called program allocates
some environment variables, then uses the rest of the system capacity to pass
arguments.  The problem with sudo is that it sets an environment variable to
`$SUDO_COMMAND` and blows up this assumption that the program won't need more
than 4k of new environment space, as that huge list of arguments is now copied
to sudo's environment.  It all works fine if you `sudo xargs` instead.
